>> Sarah Drasner: It's demo time,
this one's gonna be a hard demo for
me to do, so
I'm gonna make a lot of mistakes.
Don't worry, we'll still get it done,
[LAUGH] But regular dev and
regular life is gonna be
mistake-ridden anyway.
So okay, let's open up that
layout that we had before, and
we had a bunch of different layouts,
right?
What I'm gonna do, instead of building it
from scratch because I think that would
take a while and
I also think that this is more
true to life,
we're gonna go to gridbyexample.com.
And we're gonna go to
the experts since I said
about a million times
that I'm not an expert.
We're gonna look at some of the examples
and patterns and we're gonna see what
closely fits what we're already working
with and then modify it because.
I think that's probably where you're gonna
start in real life probably, probably?
So okay,
we've got a bunch of examples here.
And in her videos, she has these
videos that get you started for
each one of them, and videos that
you can watch for each one of them.
And she has all of these cool
examples to check out, right?
>> Sarah Drasner: I see tons and tons.
So if you wanted that composition and
to just fancy it up,
it already is there, you could just
grab it and then manipulate it.
So let's look at some of these here.
Okay, cool.
>> Sarah Drasner: All right, and
then let's look at some of the patterns.
Pretty neat.
This is really nice too, that's like
something everybody makes sense of.
So if we look back at our layout,
I would say
probably the first one is most
similar to something I already saw.
This one, I think,
something like that I saw already, so
let's go back here, in examples.
This, no clearing required,
looks pretty similar, yeah?
It's got an implicit height, we're
gonna manipulate it, but that's pretty,
pretty close, we got this,
yeah, just a bit wider version.
Okay, so let's open this up and
I'll make the text a little bit bigger.
>> Sarah Drasner: All right, so
what we've got here is we've got,
I'm gonna title this CSS really quick.
The other thing that I like to do, and you
don't necessarily have to do this, but I
think it will probably save you some time,
is to use normalize and autoprefixer.
Then you don't have to add
prefixes to everything, and
then normalize will keep those.
There's a lot of weird things that
the browser assumes you want like
padding on the body and
stuff that you probably don't want.
So Normalize helps you clear out all
of those crazy styles and autoprefixer
will keep you from having to write all of
the prefixes, so I'm gonna add those in.
I'm also gonna add SCSS as
a preprocessor because I like it,
you don't have to use something like that.
So okay, we've got a body with
a margin of 40 pixels, so
that's what's keeping that to
be 40 pixels around there.
Then we've got our grid area,
sidebar, content, header, footer,
we saw what that does earlier,
that was pretty cool?
And she's doing this really
nice thing here where she's
lining it up, she only really needs
one period to make that space.
Instead, she's drawing
all the periods out so
that it's clear what's going on there,
neat?
I like that.
Okay, so for grid-template-columns,
I'm gonna change this to repeat(3,
1fr) so then we have it just going across.
I'm actually going to
explicitly say to this wrapper
that what I want you to be
is width 100 field width and
height, 100 view height, okay, cool.
>> Sarah Drasner: Wait, first I have
to fork it in order to save it,
that's a big thing if you're using that
thing, I'm gonna keep this private for
now and then I'll open it up.
Well actually, I'll just leave it
public so that people can find it easy.
And okay, so now we've got
this,
>> Sarah Drasner: Browser.
The body has this margin of 40,
which we want,
if we go back to our Photoshop document,
that's what we want here vaguely.
But it's extending beyond here and
that's not great, so
what we're gonna have to do is use calc.
And if you're not familiar with calc,
what we can do here is say,
all right, what we want is not
a width of 100 view width,
we want calc 100 view width minus,
what was, 40?
Yeah, okay 80 pixels, so
double the amount there, yeah?
Makes sense?
Cuz that was 40, so
that wasd double one on each side, yeah?
Okay, now everyone was like,
no, yes, okay.
Same with the height, except we're
gonna change that to view height.
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah, getting a little
closer, cool, we didn't even do much and
we're getting there.
All right, so we've got the header,
the content, and the footer.
Let's look back at the document.
That header is the implicit height,
you've got 80 pixels or
something like that, and
the footer is the same implicit height, so
80 pixels or something,
let's just do that.
Let's go, so the grid template columns,
grid template areas,
I think it's grid template
rows,
>> Sarah Drasner: It will be,
>> Sarah Drasner: I think this is right,
80px, 1fr,
>> Sarah Drasner: That seem good?
Yes, okay, cool.
>> Sarah Drasner: This
footer is wrong though,
because remember in our Photoshop
document, we had it start here.
So I'm actually gonna make the footer
do the same thing as the header does.
>> Sarah Drasner: Better?
Yeah, cool!
In terms of that text on the side,
I'm just gonna absolute fix position
that to the side or absolutely position.
So absolutely position, if I want it to
stay and then scroll up with the page.
But I actually wanna do it fixed so
that it's just like constantly there and
if there's stuff below the fold,
it stays there.
That's just a decision I'm making,
you don't have to do that but
that might be fun.
In order to make room for that in
the sidebar though, we need to push
the sidebar over so we have room for
that text to fix position layout there.
So really we want
the width to be 80 pixels,
let's see, we want it to be -120 maybe?
And then its shorter and
then we move it over with some margin.
>> Sarah Drasner: Margin left,
[INAUDIBLE] let's start there,
and 40 pixels, I think it should be
bigger, maybe 60 pixels.
[INAUDIBLE] I guess we're getting there,
so now we've got that little piece here.
And inside here,
I'm gonna do what I said earlier,
where I just lay out those with either
inline block or display flex and
then I'm gonna position
absolute that logo over there.
So it's okay for it to take up that space,
we're not gonna fill that block normally.
So I can actually have another div here,
it's gonna be,
>> Sarah Drasner: Div
class side text,
I don't know, naming is hard,
and then I'm gonna say Laurem and
then tab.
If you're not familiar with Emmett, that's
another thing to get good at because if
you use Emmett then you can
build layouts really quickly.
It could be like, actually let's
do that for the header right now.
Let's say ULLI times 4,
of course it doesn't
work when I'm doing them.
Okay, let's do LI times 4,
>> Sarah Drasner: Okay,
now it's working,
I probably hit something wrong.
So now I can say, Thing, Taco,
Tacopants,
>> Sarah Drasner: other tacos,
your normal Nav content,
[LAUGH] That you have,
I always just use tacos for everything.
Even secret login names, so
now if you see tacopants online,
you're gonna be like, that's Sarah.
So okay, we're gonna take this text,
I'm gonna eliminate some of the text and
make it a little bit shorter.
Probably we don't want all of this stuff.
>> Sarah Drasner: Cool, and then for
the side text I'm gonna say,
>> Sarah Drasner: Position fixed left 0,
I just always start from left 0, top 0 so
I can change it from there.
0, 0, then I'm going to go maybe 20 px?
No, 40 px, and
then before we change the top,
let's actually transform it.
Transform, rotate 90 degrees.
>> Sarah Drasner: There we go.
Now, maybe left is,
>> Sarah Drasner: -30, top is 120,
maybe, no, not even close.
[LAUGH]
>> Sarah Drasner: This
is an exact science,
everyone [LAUGH] Let's say 205.
But now if I had more content on the page
that would just stay stuck there, and
then I could scroll.
And it would just be a little decorative
bit and/or have some information in there,
depending on what you want.
So we're good,
we're doing pretty well here.
Let me actually make this nav a thing
real quick, we have another?
Yeah, we have the header,
so I'm gonna say,
UL display inline block, no?
Wanna do display flex, there we go.
And then we'll do LI list
style,
>> Sarah Drasner: And
then let's give it some margin, so
margin 0,
>> Sarah Drasner: 30px 0, 0.
>> Sarah Drasner: That is way too big,
maybe 20px, and
then this will get a padding-left: 0,
because there's an implied padding on ULs.
So then I'll add a back in and
say, margin left 20px.
Actually no, I don't want that,
I want it to be its own color, so
the header actually,
I don't want that to have that background.
I'm gonna say, color is black,
and then I'm gonna remove
the background color here,
this needs to color
>> Sarah Drasner: Shouldn't that be that?
No, we have another color.
>> Sarah Drasner: So
now this one goes there,
I don't want that margin left.
And there's some background
colors that I don't want, but
I don't want, let's see, I want.
>> Sarah Drasner: To get rid off this.
>> Sarah Drasner: And cool, maybe we want
just to put a border on these boxes so
we can see them for now.
>> Sarah Drasner: Yeah, so you can
kinda see where we're going with this,
we're getting there.
For the sidebar,
I'm gonna put in some content so
that we have stuff to work with,
so probably the sidebar will have,
>> Sarah Drasner: h1 something big,
[LAUGH] And then ptag with lorem.
>> Sarah Drasner: This text is really big,
I think she has a font size, yeah,
font size 150, okay.
>> Sarah Drasner: All right, we have
a layout, that was a few minutes, cool.